#LyX 2.1 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 474
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_math auto
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Subsection
Tabs or spaces for indentation - 
\color blue
very important to read this
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If you mix tabs and spaces in python, it will behave in unexpected ways.
 The python code that I am giving you has spaces not tabs.
 So you must setup spyder or your text editor to put in 4 spaces instead
 of a tab.
 In 
\family typewriter
\color blue
spyder
\family default
\color inherit
 go to 
\family typewriter
\color blue
Tools -> Preferences-> Editor-> Advanced setting
\family default
\color inherit
 and make sure that 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset


\family typewriter
\color blue
4 spaces
\family default
\color inherit

\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 is selected for 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset


\family typewriter
\color blue
Indentation characters
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

'
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Manually Wrap Long Lines 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Wrap long lines -- unless inside brackets, use 
\backslash
 at the end of the line so that the next line is a continuation.
 Set up your text editor to avoid lines longer than 80 characters.
 For example:
\begin_inset listings
inline false
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

gradient = (value2 - value1) 
\backslash

\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout

           /(x2 - x1)
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Global and Local Variables
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A global variable is a variable that can be accessed from all functions,
 even if it is not an argument to that function.
 This can be very dangerous and lead to bugs in your code.
 A local variable is a variable that is only defined within a specific function.
 Avoid global variables by putting all code within functions.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Newpage clearpage
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Using Python on the Met Department Unix System
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The PhD students mostly use Unix workstations so this is for them.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
See 
\begin_inset Flex Flex:URL
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout

http://www.met.reading.ac.uk/it/UNIX/cloud/
\end_layout

\end_inset

 for how to use the Met Department cloud.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
After 
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\family typewriter
ssh -Y username@met-cluster
\family default

\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

 type
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

 
\family typewriter
setup canopy
\family default

\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

 then
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset

 
\family typewriter
python
\family default
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
I can recommend 
\family typewriter
gedit
\family default
 as a text editor
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
